In the last lecture, we finally added code to pass on this token,
now I want to make sure that we can't reach the dashboard route if we're not authenticated. To do this I'll
add a navigation guard, a concept I taught you about in the routing section.
We set it up on a per route level,
well actually you can set up guards on different levels but to prevent the access to a given route, the
per route level makes sense because it checks the guard condition before actually loading the component
which is of course what we want here.
Now here in my route set up, I can add the before enter property, that actually will be a method and I
will split this up over multiple lines to make it easier to read,
this method will receive three arguments, to, that will hold information about the router going to, from,
information where we're coming from
and next, a function I have to execute to continue navigating. Inside the function,
I now want to check whether we do have a token or not
because only if we have a token the user isAuthenticated, only then it makes sense to continue. To get
this information from the store, I'll import the store from ./store.js and this store I import
here
is the same instance as the instance I access in my components with this.$store,
so we're talking about the same store. In before enter, I now simply check if store state, so store.state
ID token is set,
if this is true,
so if we have a valid token, I'll execute next,
so the navigation may continue, else if the token is false or null, if it's invalid, I will also call next
but I'll pass an argument to it which will redirect the request.
If you pass a string path, you will go to that path,
so I want to go to /signin, this route here.
Now with that, if I save this and I go back to my application and reload it to invalidate all tokens I might
have, if I click on dashboard, you see instead I land on sign in,
I can't go to dashboard no matter how hard I try.
As soon as I do login though and I have a token therefore, I can access dashboard and this is how easy
we can protect a route with before enter and by accessing the store in there.